The President:
I'm speaking to you from
Caminada Bay in Grand Isle,
Louisiana, one of the first
places to feel the devastation
wrought by the oil spill
in the Gulf of Mexico.
While I was here, at
Camerdelle's Live Bait shop,
I met with a group of local
residents and small business owners.
Folks like Floyd Lasseigne,
a fourth-generation oyster fisherman.
This is the time of year when he
ordinarily earns a lot of his income.
But his oyster bed, along the
north side of Grand Isle,
has likely been
destroyed by the spill.
Terry Vegas has a similar story.
He quit the 8th grade to become
a shrimper with his grandfather.
Ever since, he's earned his
living during shrimping season
-- working long, grueling days so that he could earn enough
money to support
himself year round.
But today, the waters where he's
spent his years are closed.
And every day, as
the spill worsens,
he loses hope that he'll be able
to return to the life he built.
"You can put a price on a
lost season," he's said.
"But not a lost heritage."
The effects of the spill
reach beyond the shoreline.
I spoke with Patti Rigaud.
For 30 years, she's owned a
small convenience store --
a store opened by her father.
She depends on the sales
generated by tourism each summer.
But this year, most of the boats
that would line these docks are
nowhere to be seen.
Dudley Gaspard, who owns the
Sand Dollar Marina and Hotel,
has been hit hard as well.
Normally, this time of year,
rooms are filling up and tackle
is flying off the shelves.
But he too has been devastated
by the decline in tourism and
the suspension of fishing in the
waters off the Louisiana Coast.
Their stories are familiar
to many in Grand Isle and
throughout the Gulf region.
Often families have been
here for generations,
earning a living,
and making a life,
that's tied to the water -- that's tied to the magnificent
coasts and the natural
bounty of this place.
Here, this spill has not
just damaged livelihoods.
It's upended whole communities.
And the fury people feel is not
just about the money they've lost.
They've been through
tough times before.
It's about the wrenching
recognition that this time their
lives may never be the same.
These folks work hard.
They meet their
responsibilities.
But now because of a
manmade catastrophe --
one that's not their fault
and beyond their control --
their lives have been
thrown into turmoil.
It's brutally unfair.
It's wrong.
And what I told these
men and women --
and what I have said since the
beginning of this disaster --
is that I'm going to stand with
the people of the Gulf Coast
until they are made whole.
That's why from the beginning,
we mobilized on every front to
contain and clean up this spill.
I've authorized the deployment of 17,000 National Guard troops
to aid in the response.
More than 20,000 people are
currently working around the
clock to protect
waters and coastlines.
We've convened hundreds of top
scientists and engineers from
around the world.
More than 1,900 vessels are in
the Gulf assisting in the clean up.
And more than 4.3 million feet of boom have been deployed with
another 2.9 million feet
of boom available --
enough to stretch
over 1,300 miles.
17 staging areas are in place across Louisiana, Mississippi,
Alabama, and Florida to rapidly defend sensitive shorelines.
In short, this is the largest
response to an environmental
disaster of its kind in
the history of the country.
We've also ordered BP to
pay economic injury claims,
and we will make sure they pay
every single dime owed to the
people along the Gulf Coast.
The Small Business
Administration has stepped in to
help businesses by approving
loans and allowing deferrals of
existing loan payments.
And this week, the federal
government sent BP a preliminary
bill for $69 million to pay back
American taxpayers for some of
the costs of the
response so far.
In addition, after an
emergency safety review,
we're putting in place
aggressive new operating
standards for offshore drilling.
And I've appointed a bipartisan
commission to look into the
causes of this spill.
If laws are inadequate
-- laws will be changed.
If oversight was lacking
-- it will be strengthened.
And if laws were broken -- those responsible will be brought to justice.
Now, over the last few days BP
has placed a cap over the well,
and it appears they're making some progress in trying to pump
oil to the surface to keep it
from leaking into the water.
But has -- has been the case since the beginning of this
crisis, we're
prepared for the worst,
even if we hope that BP's efforts bring better news
than we've received before.
We also know that regardless of
the outcome of this attempt,
there will still to be some
slippage until the relief wells
are completed.
And there will continue to be
a massive cleanup ahead of us.
These are hard times in
Louisiana and across the Gulf
Coast, an area that's seen more than its fair share of trouble.
But what I've seen are communities absolutely
determined to fight through this
disaster as they have before,
to preserve not just a way to
make a living but a way of life.
And we will fight
alongside them,
until the awful damage that
has been done is reversed,
people are back on their feet,
and the great natural bounty of
the Gulf Coast is restored.
Thank you.